Well, I was thinking that as you go to different countries for this research, you can see the history of libraries at different stages.
That's the point.
And thinking back to the NYPL, which began as a series of private libraries, I think in Brazil with Jose Mendelin, you can see... At that stage.
At that stage.
because countries like Brazil, although they have national libraries, and it's always occurred to me that when you found a new country, the first thing countries do is write a constitution, and the second thing they do is to create a national library in order to define a national literature and a common culture.
So these countries create national libraries, but
They don't create public libraries.
And I think that's the great mystery that you might think about investigating.
I love it.
The public libraries.
But I also think we're seeing the destruction of the public library right now.
That's what I suspect you'll find when you look around.
How do you mean?
How has it been this morning?
The great cultural move towards privatization of all things, and the move of the media companies to privatize copyright, to do away with copyright and fair use provisions and replace them with pure contract, is the destruction of the legal foundation of libraries.
You know, now they want to ship books to us and shrink wrap cellophane with licenses on them that we can't use for the library loan.
Really?
So they're trying to close in on the book and turn it into a kind of closed terrain.
Why do you think they're doing that?
To protect the book as an object?
No, because of this idea of intellectual property, which is they don't know what the future is, and they're trying to protect all of their future vets.
in terms of future markets for information, multimedia markets.
And they're trying to reverse engineer the very things about copyright law that have allowed libraries to, that is they're not only talking about new media, they're also talking about print.
They're attacking fair use.
They're attacking the first sale doctrine.
So I think the Clinton administration's privatization of all kinds of public goods
and the media companies attempt to completely commodify knowledge through new copyright laws and contract laws, I think we're seeing a real attack on the idea of a library as a public space and a public terrain.
I'm not saying it's going to win, I'm saying I think that's the struggle, because you also see polities all across the country passing financing for wonderful new libraries.
It's amazing, isn't it?
That, you know, where people say that the library is dead.
But look at the... Yeah, long live the library.
Well, look at the, you know, everywhere, really.
I mean, and I'm trying to visit as many of them as I can.
We find that.
I mean, I think it's a real misconstruction of the problem to say digital versus print.
What we find with the online catalog and all these databases is people use print more.
But MIT Press found when they published City of Bits online, they gave it away online.
What was it again?
City of Bits is the name of the book.
City of Bits.
It's a book by Bill Mitchell on the impact of computer technology on cities and city planning.
MIT Press put it online, gave it away for free, and discovered they sold more print copies than they projected.
Turns out online publication is like a marketing device.
It helps people find the information, but people still want to buy the book.
Do you think MIT Press would address themselves to that?
I do.
It's Bits, B-Y.
B-I-T-S.
City of Bits.
Bill Mitchell.
I think we don't know yet if computers and online information is the opposite of print, or if it's
a new mode of communication.
I personally think it's a complementary and will be a complementary medium.
And that by and large, online information is going to increase the use of print.
That would be my guess.
Who knows, but that would be my guess.
How long have you been, just biographically, how long have you been in this position?
Three years here.
Three years as university librarian at
But I am not a librarian.
I'm a political philosopher by training.
And, you know, I do the kind of
political anthropology of knowledge is my field.
Really?
And how I got into administration, I don't know.
Well, you know, but it is interesting.
You know, Billington is a historian.
Paul Leclerc is not a librarian.
Martin Gregorian is not a librarian.
That's right.
You know, Archibald McLeish is not a librarian.
I mean, these are, the library is the site of some really interesting intellectual problems.
So I think a lot of people from a lot of disciplines are attracted to this institution.
All of these people I mentioned, by the way, I've interviewed already, Barton and Paul.
They're all good friends of mine.
You know, there is concern out here and in the world out there that maybe this university is drawing a lot of its resources towards the electronic and away from, I mean, they're not telling you something, anything you haven't heard.
We spend 3% of our budget on digital works and 97% on print.
That doesn't seem like some kind of a wild proportion to me.
Does it to you?
I didn't know those numbers.
That's the fact.
And of that 3%, most of it is for databases, abstracting and indexing databases, so people can use print collections.
So it's a hysteria.
But the facts are, we might go that direction.
I think we face a major decision about our science journals
We're being offered contracts to put three to 5,000 of our most important science journals online.
And our problem there is that the inflation rate is well over 20% a year.
And the issue is, and we're not getting any increases at all to our budget, which means every time it increases 20%, we cut 20%.
That's the real problem.
The library is no longer getting funding to build a collection here.
So how much money did you get?
Can you give me a number on that?
We spent about $8 million on collections.
$8 million, of which 3% is for, as you said, the electronic stuff, and now 7% of that is for print.
If you buy a journal exclusively online and you decide to terminate it, do you still have what you bought three years ago, I wonder?
Well, that's one of the big questions on my mind.
That's why I've not signed any of these contracts.
Who's going to preserve the digital?
Who knows how to?
Does it actually save money or does it cost more?
Those are all unknowns.
Will the inflation rate for digital be the same?
But our real problem is, since 1989, we've had no increases for inflation.
That's the real problem.
It's not digital versus print.
It's the fact the university isn't supporting the collection.
Why do you suppose that is?
Do you like to ask that?
To whom would I address that question?
President of the university, Dick Atkinson.
What's his name?
Atkinson.
This was not his decision, because he's new, but since 89, up until 89, our collections were protected from inflation by the office of the president, and they have not been since 1989.
So that's the real crisis, and I think it has to do with this culture that
This myth that somehow digital is going to be free or cheaper, information will flow around, I think administrations all over the country have bought into a myth that somehow digital is cheap, free, and there's no evidence that that's true.
And you think that this is something that's happening not just in California, but you think this is pretty much endemic to the whole... I think technology is the drug of choice of academic administrators.
Exactly.
Are you anxious about that?
Does that bother you?
Well, you know, I'm a social scientist, and I think it's...
not based upon any real analysis of the facts.
I know as much about technology as anybody does.
I'm very interested in the new kinds of genres that can emerge from networked information, but I don't see them replacing print.
You don't?
I don't.
I'm probably starting, it's just a chapter, a very exciting chapter, mind you, on the university libraries in the Harvard Depository.
And then going around with Ken Carpenter as he goes and decides, you know, which books are going off to South Row and which is staying in Cambridge.
It's a very, very basic situation.
They have this philosophy at Harvard.
There's no such thing as a dead book.
They do admit to some grooming, but not necessarily weeding.
They don't apply any two-year rules or three-year rules or five-year rules, as Michigan has suggested doing.
If a book hasn't been written in five years, maybe we'd get rid of it or it goes off-site.
I'd like to enter a general discussion, a philosophical discussion with you on this, or perhaps even policy.
We have one of these remote storage things, too, here.
I think this question about space deserves a lot of thought.
That administrations all over the country are saying that they can't afford to build more library stacks in the center of campus.
It's too expensive.
What the people in humanities say is their mode of searching is browsing, and they want to browse through
collections, and that it's part of being a public space.
We have a new stacks here with compact shelving, and many of the faculty find it a real barrier to that kind of free browsing.
A real what?
What was the word?
Barrier.
A barrier, actually.
To the free, kind of spontaneous browsing of the collection.
The Calgary argument is we can keep a third
more books, the extra 800,000 books on campus.
So there's this question of, the space question is really a question of how you organize knowledge.
Libraries are expensive, space is scarce, but I think it's a discussion about what you think the public, the library is a public resource, a common resource.
There's football and the library are the two common points of a very increasingly specialized university.
I think it's not just a question of inventory management.
I think it's a question of community, philosophically.
But now, I asked Charles, for instance, who do you see as, who do you serve?
And, you know, he says, I, number one, serve the students and faculty of the University of California.
And I suppose because you are a state-supported institution, you know, I guess you do exist to serve the public.
Is this what you're saying?
Or, I mean, you are fundamentally here to... No, I don't mean the public in that sense.
I mean... Maybe you can define that a little better.
I mean the...
It's a public good for the university as a whole, is what I mean, that most of faculty and students' lives here is highly specialized.
And the question is, what holds the university together now?
You know, Clark Kerr was famous for saying, parking lot holds the university together.
Clark Kerr.
And he being?
He was the former chancellor of this university.
He wrote a book called The Uses of the Multiversity, defining the new university as a multiversity.
This was in the 60s.
And he worried that the parking lot, he didn't advocate this, but he worried that the parking lot, the question is, as the university becomes more and more diverse and more and more identified with serving society, what holds the university itself together as an academic community?
And he worried that maybe the parking lot would be the only shared resource.
I think the library is the other kind of shared intellectual resource that everybody holds in common.
And one of the consequences of a digital library is everybody continues to stay in their lab or department or private spaces.
They're not pulled into this common space.
So that's what I meant by .
Are you developing criteria for books that go offsite?
Use is our criteria.
So if a book's not used?
If it's not used, it's put in storage.
What's the number?
A year, two years, three years, five years?
You know, it's not that kind of a thing.
Our space is so scarce that we
You'll have to ask someone else about the exact numbers, but we put as many books on campus as we can, but the line is not one year, two years, three years.
The line is what's least used and what's most used.
But that's a subjective figure.
No, it's a dynamic figure.
It's a fact.
It's not subjective.
It has a book circulated as a fact.
A book might circulate vigorously, but nobody's taken it out the year.
It's just the luck of a draw.
I hate to be fine on that.
I don't understand that point.
I mean, by use, we mean not only circulating, being checked out, but also being taken off the shelves and looked at.
So what other measure of use would you suggest?
Okay, I'll look at that slide.
How many books do you have space for on campus?
You have to ask a guy down the hall who has all of those numbers.
Who's that?
Bernie Hurley.
Where is your off-site facility?
It's in Richmond.
Which is 20 miles?
10 miles, maybe.
What's the turnaround?
You have to ask Bernie.
I think it's twice a day, but I'm not sure.
Oh, that's pretty good.
We try and make it as fast as possible so that it's not a big inconvenience.
How about deaccessioning?
Do you have any deaccession books?
Do you do reading?
There is some reading.
Most of the reading is in Moffat Library.
It's the undergraduate library.
We keep a parallel collection there.
Those books tend to be utterly consumed.
that is just torn apart, they wear out.
We have a huge binding and preservation, but we tend to treat the undergraduate collection as a consumable collection.
We tend to, and it's duplicates, so we keep a copy of record in the main stacks.
By and large, we try to conserve the books, but I think there is a weeding
process, but by and large we try and keep them.
I've also been to Cornell, which is very actively involved in this digitization.
They've really formulated the criteria for the faculty has input as to the relevance of a book, the importance of a book, whether it will be digitized, whether it will be sent someplace.
come up with a phrase called phase deterioration.
Have you ever heard of that phrase?
Basically, it's a book that's approaching a very dangerous state, and the decision has been made that maybe it's not important enough to either repair or to de-acidify or remind, and also to scan so they're going to make it comfortable and do nothing heroic, I guess.
but it'll be allowed to die, you know, to use that map for a natural death without any invasive procedures.
What do you think of that?
Is that something that you think makes... I mean, I would like to keep involved because I don't know what a future generation is going to think about our choices.
But, you know, this is not a live question for me.
My question is how to buy books.
and the fact that our budget is declining.
I put much more effort into the other end of the equation, building the collections.
Well, that's important to you, by the way.
Oh.
Very important.
The fact that you care about buying books.
I mean, I think it's a horrendous and appalling mistake that this university is not supporting the buying books.
We're supposed to be the collection of record for the state of California.
So if we don't collect something, it means it probably does not exist in this state and in the West.
We've historically been the repository for all the higher education in the West.
We, Berkeley, and now the University of California.
And they've just abandoned that.
So we're buying fewer and fewer books every year.
As the price of scientific journals has exploded,
journals are pushing out the purchase of books.
You know, I have to guard the boundary between the book budget and the journal budget.
Because the journals, you know, it's an interesting thing for you to think about.
They have a very high use for a very short period of time.
Whereas the books have a very low use for a very long period of time.
So for me, defending the book budget and raising endowments for the books and buying books
has to do with representing the interests of future generations of faculty and students against the immediate demands of the sciences.
So that's where I spend most of my time, is trying to defend the book collections.
And I should probably worry about what's happening to them at the other end of the process more.
No, that's excellent.
I'm delighted that this is how you directed this particular conversation, because I've got this other thing.
And this hasn't been addressed.
And I commend you for being frank enough to admit that this is a problem here.
That's a concern.
It's not just here.
This is true all across the country that science, technology, medicine, and business are the cash crops of universities.
This is where the big professional schools are that serve the major leading-edge industries in the states.
In our state and in other states, the scientists bring in income, grants.
So their needs are very, very important.
But by virtue of 20 percent inflation, and Harvard is the only academic library in the country that has kept up with inflation.
Everybody else is buying less than they used to.
But a lot of the way the science journals have been defended is by cutting the book budget.
So nationally, the market for books is much smaller than it was for academic books.
Even university presses are hesitant to publish highly specialized scholarly books.
So what we're seeing is when I buy fewer books, I'm helping to dry up demand, which makes publishers stop supporting these obscure monographs.
Not even obscure monographs.
It's even worse than that.
Books that might even sell to a 3,000 copies.
Yeah, I was being ironic.
I don't care if they're obscure, because sooner or later that's all part of the record.
So I worry about this not just in terms of Berkeley, but in terms of we're kind of destroying the tradition of the book as the repository of scholarship by killing the market.
So I worry about that a lot.
Do you go to your superiors?
and say, I need more money?
I mean, you do this every single year.
And it's an exercise, I gather.
It's like you go in and you say I need money.
And what do they tell you?
They tell me that faculty salaries are more important.
They tell me that the office of the president has decided that, well, I think tacitly they believe technology is going to somehow, I think tacitly,
This book will be published in 1999, by the way.
I will.
I'll be long gone by then.
Oh, don't say that.
Oh, yeah.
I'm not going to stay in this job.
It makes me too angry.
I'm a faculty member, and I'm going to go teach.
This issue we're talking about makes me so angry.
Fenton.
This is your shot.
And I promise you it's fair and accurate.
I am very public about this, so everybody knows.
Well, I don't have it.
But I think this is tacitly a devaluation of the humanities and of many of the social sciences.
But the choice to go with digital libraries, where digital libraries really serve is sciences, technology, medicine, business.
Those are the forms of knowledge that map to this form of communication pretty well.
So issues like preservation are not as important because the real value of the information dies out in three to five years.
The information is in very short formats, often data, so that maps to computers.
I have nothing against that.
I think that's wonderful.
But when you choose that as a replacement for books and print, what you're doing is choosing the sciences over the humanities.
So I think what we're seeing, and this is what many faculty feel the battle for the library budget is about, we're seeing an academic priority being played out.
It's not about books per se, and it's not about libraries per se.
It's about the role of the humanities in the university, in my opinion.
You're fine.
You can keep talking.
You gave a talk the other night in San Francisco, which I was unable to make.
Yeah, I did.
I'm so sorry I missed that.
Are these some of the things?
No, I forgot what I was talking about there.
I give a lot of talks.
I'm a very public person.
What do you teach?
I'm teaching a course on intellectual property right now.
I teach in the sociology of knowledge in the School of Information Management and Systems.
Is that formerly known as the library school?
It used to be.
Again, it's a rather disquieting trend, isn't it?
Almost no research universities have library schools now.
What's your response to that?
Well, it's being turned into a clerical profession, tacitly.
I think it's going to be very hard for us to hire librarians in the future because at an academic research library, the librarians are more than clerks.
They really have to be able to participate in the intellectual life of the department to make these decisions.
Many of our librarians have MAs and PhDs in the subjects that they serve.
It's a deprofessionalization of librarianship.
I think it's just part of the whole treating libraries as an inventory management problem, which is one of our functions, as opposed to being an academic subject, an academic department, a public space, and some of our other roles.
the disappearance of libraries.
I think public libraries are not disappearing, but in California, I think we now rank 50th in school libraries.
Jesus.
Do you mean in terms of numbers or in terms of percent?
What do you mean?
In terms of percent.
I mean, we're a large state.
You're here.
It's a small country, really.
Yeah.
Gary Strong is the former state librarian, told me this.
He said we rank 50th in school libraries.
He also told me that
Libraries are mandated in the prisons in California, but not in the schools.
Wow.
And so public libraries have started to perform the function of school libraries, but to me there's something bizarre about Clinton and all of these people talking about networking the schools, which is all fine, but not talking about school libraries.
It's all about access, but it's not about content.
It's not about
what's on the network.
So that's another angle on this.
The school library, which you may remember, I certainly remember it in mine.
It's gone.
It's gone in the state of California, by and large.
Now, the public libraries have expanded their roles in that direction, but as you look at public libraries, you might pay attention to that, the relationship to the schools.
For my kids, my kids went to school in L.A.
It really worked for them to go to the public library and not the school library, but it's a major institutional shift.
It's something that you might be aware of.
I'm getting ideas here.
It's still a work in progress, very much.
I really want to explore the whole concept of the library.
Did I talk about the historical thing?
Yeah.
I think that's very important.
I really do.
Even the physicality of a library, that's why San Francisco is of such tremendous interest to me.
What the hell did they build over there?
Now I'm thinking a little bit, maybe I'm from 3,000 miles away.
very pretty, you know, as they say in the Dirty Desert, but can it fight?
Can they fight, you know?
Where the hell are the books?
Where are the books?
What in the world do they have in mind over there?
Well, you should talk to Ken.
One of the things he told me... Tonight at 7 p.m.
Yeah.
One of the things Ken told me... As a matter of fact.
Well, Ken is a smart guy.
I mean, I asked him that... I got a tour of the library before it opened, and I asked him that question, and he said, well, he thought he could only take on one problem at a time in the polity.
that the first thing was to get the library fixed in the public mind as a... You know, he's famous for seeing the library as a tool for communities and people that have access to government and these other functions.
So I said, well, what about the books?
And he said, I want, you know, this big garage under... I was there yesterday.
50 photographs.
He wanted the garage for his stacks.
He was saying that to you then?
He said that to me then, yeah.
This was before it even opened.
He said, I know it only performs some of these functions, but I figure it's the next thing.
You can ask him about it.
He wasn't unaware of that.
But nonetheless, I think you're right to raise the question.
If I were to build a library, I did build a library.
I built one at USC, an undergraduate library.
What was the name of the library?
Levy Library.
L-E-V-Y?
L-E-A-V-E-Y.
L-E-A-V-Y.
I put all the computers in the basement.
Really?
And when did you do that?
When I was down there.
So how did, though, you're a sociologist, and how did you get into this?
How did you come to this position?
I don't know.
It's an accident.
I've been studying since 77 what happens when you introduce computers into universities.
It was a research project.
And this was where?
I was at Stanford at the time.
I was a professor at Michigan State visiting at Stanford.
I started just studying Silicon Valley.
thinking that the computer was going to change the culture.
Was I right?
So I did a three-year study of 180 faculty at the humanities at Stanford just to discover how did this technology change the way they thought about the problems, their writing.
This was a long time ago.
It was the time of the invention of the personal computer.
When I went back to Michigan State, I was a political theory professor, and I was
one of the first people from the humanities to know a lot about computers.
So they made me assistant director of the computer center, which was all run by engineers.
So for a long time I was the humanities person in the computer center.
Then my wife got a job at USC.
The Barbra Streisand Professor of Sexuality and Intimacy.
Come on.
Could I make that up?
The Barbra?
Barbra Streisand Professor of Sexuality and Intimacy.
Oh, great.
It's an endowed chair for... Someone in Women's Studies, which is my wife's... Barbra Streisand Professor of... I want to write it down so it's not just a... Sexuality and Intimacy.
This is a real-time... It'll be a while before I...
And what's your wife's name?
Barry Thorne.
Say your name?
Barry, B-A-R-R-I-E.
She's named after Sir James Barry.
Okay, oh great.
Thorne, T-H-O-R-N-E.
So we moved to USC and they put me in charge of, they wanted me to do a computer center for the humanities, which I called the Center for Scholarly Technology.
It just blew everybody's mind.
And then they asked me to be University of Liberia, and it came as quite a surprise.
So you kind of backed into this?
Yeah, I wouldn't have had the chutzpader to do this.
But I'm one of the few academics who's done a lot of research on computers and the university.
Will I be able to get a CV so I can check some of these publications and stuff?
Sure.
Did you see that issue of Dentalist, by the way, on libraries?
I haven't.
Because I wrote a thing on digital libraries in there.
A lot of what I think about, what I've been saying to you is in there.
I wrote you said one of them.
You're an academic.
I'm an academic.
Both USC and Berkeley thought that with libraries changing, it needed more of an academic kind of perspective on it.
Kind of an oversight perspective?
Just somebody who I know a lot about technology, but I come out of the humanities.
But you're not a techie, so to speak.
I'm not.
I mean, it's odd because my reputation at Berkeley is as being a techie, but in fact, I'm someone who's very skeptical
in the good sense about technology.
I think it's very promising.
I would call it experimental.
I would call digital libraries experimental.
Have you ever seen that website DigiLive, that magazine?
It's totally published there.
I interviewed those people from Cornell.
I'm bracketing this to date I started.
I'll enter it, as I mentioned, with Harvard, but then I flashed to Cornell.
That's a good contrast.
I... That is a good interview.
That is a good... I'm pulling a lot of that.
It's a good contrast.
Cornell's one of the...
In a lot of ways, yeah.
Cornell's one of the leaders.
Well, Cornell is a funny place in that it's quasi-public, quasi-private.
Another contrast that's quite interesting is between public universities and private universities.
If you take a look at the national statistics, the ARL statistics,
You'll see virtually all of the top ten libraries, all of the top privates are pulling away from all of the top publics in most statistics, collections.
But at Cornell, I think it's going to go down.
I think so.
They made this principal decision.
Which was defiant to me.
By the year 2000, 6.8 million books will be 5 million books.
My jaw dropped.
They're very open about it, I give them that.
No, they aren't.
It would be easy for me to find a sitting university.
Well, Michigan's another one.
I would much rather have two Ivies.
Two five-star, then we can bring the others in.
Because then I think you really do frame the discussion in that manner.
I hope you talk to Charles.
There is another side of digital libraries, which is what they're doing in the Bancroft about digitizing archival collection is a great thing for medieval historians.
I'm going to see Father Boyle in Italy in November.
He sees the great example, isn't he?
It's a great preservation technology.
It's an access technology.
There are niches in which technology is going to be very important.
Scientific journals are one.
I think archival collections are one.
But it is not a replacement for books.
Well, when I was at Cornell, again, they showed me a letter on the screen that Lafayette's young daughter wrote to President of Washington, General Washington at that point, inquiring about the health and welfare of her father.
Lovely little letter, and I said that.
And they have a great Lafayette collection there.
I said, this is nuts.
I'm telling you, is this thing sealed?
You know, because they didn't have envelopes.
I said, we couldn't tell that.
Why is that important?
That's wrong.
First of all, how does this letter enter the collection with Lafayette when we know it was sent to Washington in the mail?
You know, how is it addressed?
You know, I mean, these are questions that I have.
And then I said, well, I don't know that.
Maybe we'll have to go look at the real letter.
And then I said, I'm going to tell you what happened.
And she did send it to Washington.
And then Washington being childless and called in Lafayette and said, look at the letter I got from your daughter in Lafayette.
It's moved.
And he says, hey, you take it.
That's how we got the letter.
That's wonderful.
That's my guess, but these aren't the questions that they have.
Paul DeGood, who spoke with me, had a great example of that.
He's in Portugal.
Did he tell you that story?
He's in Portugal reading letters from the New World and smelling for vinegar.
I love that story.
We have 26,000 images on the network of the history of California, which is great.
School kids all over California can do research.
And they would never have been able to do that before, and that's wonderful.
And 99% of the people who would have looked at that letter can use the digital image as a full satisfaction, but they're still that person who will need to look at the paper, need to feel the paper, need to understand the providence.
So it greatly expands the use of archives, but it certainly doesn't replace them.
And if Cornell wants to throw away their archives, I'll take them.
I'll take their books too.
what they're doing, and I shouldn't tell you, just leave this for the moment, all right?
I mean, but while I was there... No, I've got to go to a lunch.
Can I call you?
Oh, yeah.
Can we continue this?
Oh, yeah, sure we can.
I've written a lot of stuff, not in this vein.
I mean, you caught me in a ticked-off mood.
About what?
I like TikTok.
TikTok moves into that.
I just wrote something for the Mellon.
It was a speech I gave there called Digital Documents and the Future of the Academic Community.
Well, I have to have that.
I think it's relevant.
It's one of the things.
The thing in Daedalus is kind of a very formal... I have Daedalus, but where can I get the Mellon?
It's online.
It's on the web.
Well, how do I access it?
I might have it.
Did you use the web?
Yes.
I've been meaning to reread it now just on the web.
Just tell me how to access it.
Because you see these old things that have been damaged and consumed and they bring them to life.
It's my very favorite place.
Where is it today?
Oh, it's close.
Yeah, I'll walk you by it.
Well, I'm not doing this until like one, but okay, yeah, I'll walk with you.
How's that?
Oh, you're printing for me now.
Yeah.
Well, good.
You sound like a print kind of guy.
Did you notice how pleased I am that you're doing this?
This is a conference on, you know, Mellon is really behind digital libraries and economics of information.
So I think it's worth going over and talking to Bill Bowen, head of the Mellon.
Bill?
Bill Bowen is head of the Mellon Foundation in New York.
So this is a conference they had on digital libraries, on the economics, and I kind of
So all of these papers are online, and here's the website.
Outstanding.
My paper is a real, hopefully, I tried to really, Digital Documents and the Future of the Economic Community.
It's just a speech, so it's not one of my full-bore papers, but this is just saying that maybe they've left out most of the important questions in talking about, in economic terms, about what a library is.
You'll see that I'm not anti-technology at all.
I just think the terms of discourse are impossibly narrow.
When's the best time to reach you on my phone when you're talking?
Am I talking at home some night if I call you at home?
Where's your home base?
For a serious conversation, I usually make an appointment to talk on the phone just because I'm in this very bureaucratic job.
I call to meetings all the time.
It's very easy for her to block out half an hour.
It'll be a while.
I answer the email.
Oh, good.
You like email.
I do.
For messaging.
Okay.
Not for... No, no, no, no.
I never... There are people who actually want to be interviewed by email.
Bill Gates is one, for instance.
Yeah.
Well, that's an interesting mistake.
That's a real... That's a wonderful... As a consequence, he's not going to be interviewed for my book.
I mean, he doesn't interest me that much.
We could talk about that for half an hour.
That decision is something I know a lot about.
Are you talking about his library decision or this decision?
It's an interesting decision about what you think communication is and what you think knowledge is.
There are studies of email communication called flaming.
You know about that?
Nope.
There is a tendency for electronic mail
exchanges to become extremely angry and out of control.
It's called flaming well.
And this is a typical thing I've learned as a manager, never answer an angry email from an employee, ever, because there is no way to resolve a conflict on email.
Email is very good for messaging, exchanging messages.
It's very good if you share a strong common culture and friendship with the other person.
But if I answer an email, it will only escalate it, because it will get answered quickly, and why heed?
No time for reflection.
Once it's gone, it's gone.
It's more than that.
It's at least that.
The question is, why does flaming occur?
What context is stripped from human communication on email?
Every technology strips context.
The phone, for example, we know strips
You get to see another person's facial expressions and body expressions, but you do get tone of voice on the phone.
Well, there is, on email, no equivalent to tone of voice.
If you were writing a letter, you could underline things, you could write it in italics, you could star it, you could write it in big... There are a lot of ways you can communicate nuance.
And there's a period of time before you post it.
All of that's stripped out in email.
So it's a medium designed and optimized for the exchange of brief messages by people like scientists who share a common culture.
You begin to use it as a common medium of exchange.
It really has a very, very narrow spectrum of information.
And so the choice of being interviewed by email to me is that here's somebody who isn't even aware of wide, broad spectrum
of communication, of the importance of emotion, of nuance, of gesture.
Why do you suppose I go into debt traveling the earth to do my interviews?
I won't do them by the telephone unless I've met you and now we've met and we've talked.
Now I don't mind asking you some questions on the phone.
Those are exactly the terms in which email will work.
You and I have enough knowledge of each other to interpret
The missing information that occurs in email.
And we also probably know enough to know when the email is breaking down.
And it's time to call.
It's time to call or even come out to California.
Or come out to California.
See, I'm an ethnographer by training.
Ethnographer is someone who learns by participant observation.
It's a form of anthropology.
So the way I learn
about anything.
The way I studied computers was I watched people unpack them, and I took notes on the way they talk about them.
You're an observer.
So I'm very aware of, let's say, the non-informational aspects of communication.
And the very same thing applies to the book, as you described it at Cornell.
Extracting the information from its context is a loss of some kind of information.
that the people at Cornell are not aware of.
And your example of the envelope, or the vinegar, is that.
I've got a bunch of, do you know a book called Paratexts?
No, I think there's a footnote in my dental.
Oh, I'll find it.
McIntyre.
He writes about bibliography.
I'm having a chapter on bibliography.
It's a wonderful thing about James Joyce, about when James Joyce did the page proofs for Ulysses, he wrote into Ulysses puns
and references to the physical setting of the book, the layout of the book, the page number, so that when people republish it and treat it as information just to be decanted in some other way, they totally lose the meaning.
MacIntyre is really a great writer.
He's at Oxford.
I get excited.
I was thinking the same point that he knew.
I mean, it's a perfect parallel.
Is Ann there?
She might be up front.
Okay, because if she has a CV or something on her life, it would really help.
I'll introduce you to Bernie on her way past.
Bernie?
Bernie.
The guy who, he did no longer this, but he was in charge of the methodologies by which
The books were kept in storage.
I haven't paid much attention to that because I didn't... That was great.
Wonderful.
I thought of these things that we just go in and say, well, we'll put away those again.
He's not in.
Is that going out?
Yeah.
Mr. Ogden is in this building.
You mean, I was going to put you in his lab and I can't remember his office.
You know, if he's in this building, I'll find him.
Four or six years ago, basically, I'll show you where the yellow is.
And I came up with two hours of pace.
So I've got three guys.
Thanks.
I've already introduced these people.
Interesting man.
Yeah.
I can get you in there later.
Where is it?
Over in the South Pole.
We're in college.
That's not a good way around.
Well, it's very, very interesting.
I really have to point out, I think I have an idea, and as you get really good stories, I think that's a good point.
Hundreds of kids come.
This is one of the things a library is for.
It's not just the whole books, it's the culture of reading.
What we're looking at here is the Morrison Library.
There are dozens.
There's a poet in there giving a reading.
That's the poet laureate.
Yes, it is.
The poet laureate of what?
The former poet laureate.
He is?
You didn't catch me on a well day, you know.
Yeah, no, no, you'd be surprised.
Sometimes that's, that's I'll find out.
Guess what, no problem.
Okay, and you know, you have places like the University of Michigan where their new building isn't even called a library.
You know what, I call it the L word.
People are afraid to use the L word.
Which is a library.
Library.
Let's leave it at that one.
Thanks a million.
We'll be in touch.